So we're gonna go into source here,
create a directory called __test__.
What's the deal with the double
underscore, aka, the dunder?
I did not make that up,
it's what it's called.
It's a Python thing.
It's a Python thing that means
the name of this folder is special.
It's magical.
It's magical because anything inside
of there is assumed to be a test.
In other words, if you create that folder,
the test will assume any file that
you put in there is a test and
it will run it as part of your test suite.
So I can call anything in here blah.js and
vitest is gonna assume
that blah.js is a test.
You don't have to do it this way.
The other thing that you can do,
outside of this directory,
I can create a file called Pet.test.js or
jsx.
If I put .test or .spec in here, both of
those will also be assumed to be a test.
So either one of those is fine.
What do I do?
I do both, cuz I don't know why,
but I just always have.
Pet.test.js, which is
in the test directory.
I can tell you why I do it.
I like moving the test out
of the main directory, so
I don't have this super
cluttered directory.
And then I like putting test in there
because now if I search for files,
I can just search for test and
I'll see all of my test files.
That's my reason.
Either one of those is fine, one of
those is fine, whatever you wanna do.
You can also just go into
your V test configuration and
say, these are my tests,
and that works as well.
Okay, So Pet.test.js,
we're going to import expect and
test from vitest.
Import from
@testing-library/react.
And import Pet from ../Pet.
I'm sorry,
this has to be Pet.test.jsx not js.
Okay, test put a useful message
here of what it's actually testing,
displays a default thumbnail, cool.
And this takes in an async function.
I always make these async,
because they can be and
I can do await in here if I want to.
I don't even know if I'm
awaiting anything in here.
I am, but
I always make these async just by default.
I'm gonna say const pet =
render(< pet />) like that.
And then I'm gonna say const
petThumbnail should be equal to =
await pet.findByTestId)('thumbnail'),
expect (petThumbnail.src)
toContain ('none.jpg').
And then with vitest, one of these
things that it does, as opposed to JS,
which we did not have to do before, vitest
is actually gonna take your test suite and
run it in parallel so
it can go even faster.
So make sure you're just at
the end of calling unmount.
So you need to clean up
after yourself as well, so.
This is not working yet,
that's intentional just so you know.
But this is kind of the methodology
that I'm thinking here,
I'm gonna go render something.
I'm gonna go find the thumbnail, and I'll
talk about this TestId in just a second.
And then I'm gonna make sure that
the source contains none if I don't give
it anything.
You can imagine that I get a ticket report
from users, like, hey, you have broken
images on your homepage for pets that
don't have images, what's up with that?
I can go write this test, and
then I can go fix it, and
now I have a guarantee that I know I have
fixed it, and I can just leave this to my
testing suite to make sure that
it doesn't regress again, right?
That's the idea here.
Let's go test or
talk about this findByTestId.
So open your Pet.jsx, Not tsx, jsx.
Pet.jsx here.
Here on the thumbnail here,
I want to give this a test ID, so
I'm going to give it a,
Was is it, data test ID?
Yes, data-testid = "thumbnail".
Now, why am I looking for
this rather than using a CSS selector or
something like that?
What's nice about using specifically
the test ID, one, it expresses this is
being tested, right, to a future
person that's reading Pet.tsx or jsx.
It's also saying that later,
if I change how this UI works,
I can just move what this is attached to,
right?
Let's say it moved over here, I would
just move it over there, and all sudden,
it's testing this instead of testing that.
It makes your test work independently
of HTML and CSS structure.
That's good, it's good to
decouple those where possible.
Doing data-testid allows you to do that.
Cool, we are still, We're getting closer,
but we're not quite there.
Let's try running npm test and
see what happens.
I think it's gonna,
we're still gonna fail.
Why is it gonna fail?
So this already caught a bug for us.
It cannot read properties
of undefined length.
If I don't give it any images, then
the images.length there is gonna fail,
because you're trying to
call .length on undefined.
Cool, I already caught a bug,
let's go fix it.
So go back toPpet.jsx, and
instead of saying images.length,
we're gonna say images && images.length.
Cool, it already caught a bug,
fixed that, run it again, and
now it's gonna say, hey,
I'm trying to run without a router.
I don't know how to do that, why?
Link, this,
which comes from react-router-dom,
depends on a router being above it.
We're trying to render
it without a router.
So in this particular case, what you're
gonna need to do is you need to come
back to your test and you have to
wrap this with a static router.
Okay, and then we're gonna have to
import  from, and
I think it's react-router-dom.
Does that work or do I have to get
it from react-router-dom/server?
I think you do.
Yeah, okay, react-router-dom/server.
This is just a browser router
that can work in node, right?
Cuz we're not spinning up a browser, so
we need it to work in a node environment.
Okay, now I think our test is passing.
We wrote our first passing test,
congratulations.
We can now be fairly
assured that our none.jpg
will show up if we don't give it an image,
awesome.
So let's make sure that it
works with a non-default.
So I'm gonna say test(" displays
a non-default thumbnail").
Just another note for whatever string
you put in here, put the bare minimum
amount of text necessary to know what
test failed if this is read, right?
Don't make it super verbose.
Don't give me a novel about it.
I don't want to read a novel,
I just wanna know what test broke.
This is me shadow complaining
about former coworkers.
I had this one coworker,
bless their heart, would write novels.
I feel like I'd had to write
a book report afterwards.
All right, pet = render,
Same thing, staticRouter.
We actually probably could
have just copied this.
So let's do that.
Same thing here, except we're
gonna give it images this time.
So 1.jpg,
2.jpg, and 3.jpg.
Okay, so now we have a pet,
const petThumbnail = await
pet.findByTestId, and
we're looking for a thumbnail again.
Expect,
(PetThumbnail.src).toContain("1.jpg").
pet.unmount.
Yeah, this needs to be async as well.
Async, thank you.
And there you go, two test passed